---
layout: post
title: "SOSE Week1"
date: 2024-08-28 08:30:00
description: Soa
tags: projects learning uow
categories: learning
giscus_comments: true
featured: false
---

Enterprise: any collection of organizations that has a common 
set of goals and/or a single bottom line.

Architecture: A formal description of a system, or a detailed plan of the 
system at component level to guide its implementation.

architecture description
is a formal description of an information system, 
organized in a way that supports reasoning about the 
structural properties of the system.

architecture framework
is a tool which can be used for developing a broad 
range of different architectures.

architecture framework should have
tools
methods
and standards

framework 
TOGAF
others
Zachman
FEAF


TOGAF

The Open Group Architecture 
Framework (TOGAF) is a framework 
– a detailed method and a set of 
supporting tools – for developing an 
enterprise architecture

https://www.opengroup.org/


Architecture Domains
Four levels which can be stacked on top of each others

Business Architecture - Business stratergies, governance, and key Business process
Data architecture - structure of an organization’s logical and physical data assets 
Application architecture - application systems to be deployed, their interactions, and their relationships to the core business processes of the organization
Technology architecture - Describes the logical software and hardware capabilities
that are required to support the deployment of business, 
data, and application systems.

in software engineering vocabulary is limited but most thing depend on context
it is not N layer architecture - Presentation, Application, Domain, Persisistent


TOGAF is methodology - (a consistent way of doing things)

Phase A: Architecture Vision - describes the 
initial phase of an architecture development 
cycle. It includes information about defining 
the scope of the architecture development 
initiative, identifying the stakeholders, 
creating the Architecture Vision

Phase B: Business Architecture describes 
the development of a Business Architecture to 
support the agreed Architecture Vision.



Phase C: Information Systems 
Architectures describes the 
development of Information Systems 
Architectures to support the agreed 
Architecture Vision.

Phase D: Technology Architecture
describes the development of the 
Technology Architecture to support the 
agreed Architecture Vision.

Phase E: Opportunities & Solutions
conducts initial implementation 
planning and the identification of 
delivery vehicles for the architecture 
defined in the previous phases.

Phase F: Migration Planning
addresses how to move from the 
Baseline to the Target 
Architectures by finalizing a detailed 
Implementation and Migration Plan.

Phase G: Implementation 
Governance provides an architectural 
oversight of the implementation.

Phase H: Architecture Change 
Management establishes procedures 
for managing change to the new 
architecture.

Requirements Management
examines the process of managing 
architecture requirements throughout 
the ADM.


Archimate has 2d three layers and three viewpoints

Business Layer

Active structure

it is static

Business Actor, Business Role, Business 
Collaboration, Business Interface, and Location

ex => slide 22 of lecture


Business process
